Before end this course, we want to give you a quick overview of all the important best practices when
it comes to RESTful web services.
One of the important models that you need to be aware of is something called Richardson Maturity Model.
You're doing REST, you're calling your services RESTful but how RESTful are you?
Richardson Maturity Model helps you evaluate this.
It defines three different levels of RESTful services.
Let's get started with level zero.
What is level zero of Richardson.
Maturity Model? It’s basically exposing your SOAP webservices in restful style.
What do I mean? It’s exposing URLs like this. So you can see here that I'm not exposing resources
here we are not talking about resources. These are just actions, Right?
So I have an action saying get post.
I have an action saying delete post. Do this do that.
Retrieve all course details. Delete the course. All these things are basically exposing SOAP webservices in REST style.
And this is level zero.
So basically you take stuff from your SOPA web services and expose them in a REST style. That’s basically
what level zero is all about.
Level one is all about exposing your resources with a proper URI. So in level one, you start
thinking about resources. You started migrating your services from SOAP to REST and now you started
thinking about what are the resources. My resources our users, todos, accounts and things like that.
So this is level one. However,
the important thing to note is the fact that we are not making use of the proper http methods yet.
Level 2 is level 1 plus proper use of HTTP method.
So if I have to delete an account, I would send a delete request, delete HTTP request method.
I use that to send a request to HTTP servers account slash ten.
If I want to create a new account.
I would send it to
server slash account and do a post request.
If you look at most of the resources that we created as part of this course they are all at level 2
level 3 is level 2 plus
HATEOAS. Hyper media as the engine of application state.
What we wouldn't need to return when we are at level 3 is not just the data, not just the information
but also what are the next possible actions.
If I am returning information of our specific post by a Facebook user.
Then I would also return information about how I can like that. How I can unlike that and how I can
comment on that.
So we are not just talking about the information of the post but also about the next possible actions
We discussed about HATEOAS briefly in the course and we converted a resource to use HATEOAS
In this quick video, we looked at the three levels of Richardson Maturity Model. It helps you evaluate at
what kind of maturity you are with your RESTful services implementation. Until the next video,
bye-bye.